Server Process: It is process which work on behalf of user..

SGA: It is shared memory, shared among with all user and process..It contain following components.
Shared pool:  It contain two sub pool.
	1. Data dictionary cache: contain metadata of database..like how many objects are there, no.of rows,
	   user detail, table details, user privilege etc.
	2. Library cache: sql syntax, semantics check here..and generate plan hash value of sql query..
	
Database Buffer cache:
	
	1. It store copy of actual data block coming from data file by user queries.
	2. Data block size can be 2k,4k,8k,16k,32k.. default size 8k

	Different Buffer status:
	unused -> pinned -> used -> Dirty (afetr commit) -> clean 


Redlog Buffer Cache:

	1. It store redo entries copy. All the changes made into the db goes into redo entries.
	2. It use for instance recovery.
	1. It contain SCN, Timestamp, old and new image value.

Java Pool:
	All java procedure and code of java application running on oracle dba software.

Large Pool:
	It use at the time of Rman backup.

Stream Pool:
	use for replication purpose.

PGA:
	1. it's private..Non shared memory, dedicated to each server process to perform execution of sql satatment.
	2. one PGA exist for each server process & BG process.
	3. It is a memory heap that contain session dependant variables.
	2. it's store bind variable(user specific)..
	3. session information
	4. sorting 

	Contents of tha PGA:
	1. SQL work Area
	2. Session Memory
	3. Private SQL Area

	SQL Work Area:

	1. Sort Area: A sort operator uses the sort area to sort a set of rows.
	2. Hash Area: A hash join operator uses a hase area to build a hash table.
	3. Bitmap Merge Area: A bitmap merge uses the bitmap merge area to merge data retrieved from scans of multiple 		   bitmap indexes.

	Private SQL Area:
	 -Hold information about parsed SQL statemnent & other session specific information for processing.
	 -when a SP excecutes SQL or PL/SQL code, the process uses the private SQL area to store bind variable.
	1.The Run time Area:
		- This area contains query execution state information. E.g Track the no.of rows retreived so far
		- Oracle creates the run time area as the first step of an execution request.
		- For DML statement, the run time area is freed when the SQL statement is created.

	2. Persistent Area:
		- This area contains bind variable values.
		- Persistent area is freed only when the cusror is closes.

UGA:
   1. The UGA is session memory, which is memory allocated for session variables, such as logon information.
   2. The UGA cannot be stored in the PGA when using a shared server connection because the PGA is specific to a single process
   3. UGA is stored in the SGA when using shared server connections.
   4. UGA is stored in PGA when using a dedicated server.


Background Process:

	by the help of these BG process database communicate with OS..	
	
	1. PMON (Process Monitor): 	
		1. it's monitor user process and all other background process.
		    and if any process not working then it will try to restart.

		2. Perform the process allocation and releasr resources (which taken by users).
		3. releas lock.
		4. register listener with db.
		5. session recovery (rollback)
			Ex: suppose if user performing dml operation..and instance crash then it will rollback that transaction.
		
	
	2. SMON (System/Super Monitor):
		1. instance recovery when instance crash happened.
		2. free temporary tablespace.
		
	3. DBWR (Database Writer)
	   It's writes dirty block in the buffer cache to the datafiles.
	   Event when DBWR happen:
		when write:
		1. checkpoint
		2. database stop
		3. if db buffer full and new request come then dirty buffer write  into datafile.
		
			
			
	4. LGWR
	It writing redolog buffer entries to a redo log file on disk.
	Event when LGWR happen:
		1.Every 3 sec.
		2. 1/3rd full.
		3. Checkpoint.
		4. DB Shutdown.
		5. 1Mb redo generated.
		
	5. CKPT
	Update SCN between datafile and controlfile header.
	Event when CKPT happen:
		1. Manually Checkpoint 
		2. DB shutdown.
		3. tablespace offline/online, backup initiated.

	6. ARC:
	1. It will generate offline redolog file in specified location.
	2. This will be done only if db is archivelog mode.
`	Event when ARC happen:
		1. When swithc log. 

	MMAN(Memory Manager):
		1. This process manages the shared memory and automatic memory allocation in the db.
			dynamically adjust the size of the SGA components.

	MMON(Manageability Monitor):
		1. This process is responsible for managing & monitor the db performance, including AWR & ADDM.


NOTE:

SQL> alter system checkpoint ---> Manual checkpoint
SQL> alter system switch logfile ---> Switch logfile
		
		
	
		
