--------------------------------------------------------Physical------------------------------------------------------------------------

Oracle Database Physcial structures are divided into following files:
Physcial means which present in OS level..and we can see that files.

1. Parameter file
2. Control file
3. Redo log file
4. Datafile
5. Archive log file
6. Password file
7. listener file
8. Alert file

1. Parameter File:
    1. Parameter file contain initialization parameter which contain the following parameter
        1. dbname
        2. db block size 
        3. control file location
        4. sga and pga size
        5. shared pool, large pool, stream pool,buffer size
        6. audit file location
        7. diagnostic_dest location
        8. recovery file dest location and size
        9. service name
        10. undo tablespace name

    2. This parameter file read during database startup and instance configured and background process start..
        this happen on nomount stage.. as database has 3 stages..Nomount --> Mount --->Open

    3. Parameter file have 2 types: 1) pfile   2) spfile
        The default location of parameter file is $ORACLE_HOME/dbs
        if both are present then oracle prefer spfile.

        if our pfile have on different location..then we have to mention path while startup
        e.g startup pfile='/oracle/app/oracle/product/19.0.0/dbhome_1/dbs/initprod.ora';
  
        1. pfile: 
            1. it is text file..and name convention is init<ORACLE_SID>.ora    eg: initprod.ora
            2. if we need to change any parameter we need to shutdown database and manually edit pfile by any editor like vi..

        2. spfile
            1. it is binary file and name convention is spfile<ORACLE_SID>.ora   eg: spfileprod.ora
            2. if we need to change any parameter we can do by alter command..
                e.g: alter system set [parameter_name]=value scope=spfile/memory/both

            3. scope value depend on ISSYS_MODIFIABLE value ..
                ISSYS_MODIFIABLE:
                  FALSE -> the scope of this parameter is spfile only..so we need to restart database to reflect parameter.
                  IMMEDIATE -> the scope of this parameter is both.. so no needt to restart database to reflect parameter.

2. control file

  1. control file is a small binary file which contain the database structure related inforamtion like:
      1. dbname
      2. redo log file name and location
      3. datafile name and location
      4. checkpoint information (SCN)
      5. RMAN backup information
      6. The current log sequence number
      7. The timestamp of the database creation

3. Redo log file
    1. The redo log files store the changes made to the database like DML and DCL operations.
    2. Log writer is used to writing the changes to redo log files
    3. The extension for the redo log file is .log

4. Data Files
    1. Data Files contain the actual user data, application data, and metadata. i.e Tables, Rows, indexes procedures, views, etc. The            combination of datafiles is represented as tablespaces. The data is stored using Database writer.
    2. The extension for datafiles is .dbf

5. Archived Redo Log Files
    1.  All the redo log files are archived and stored in some other location for backup and recovery purposes.
    2.  Contains ongoing history of the data changes.
    3.  Using the backup file and archived redo log files you can recover your Oracle database.

6. Password File:
    1.   It stores passwords for users with administrative privileges (sys user) in order to connect remotely.
    2.   Sys user has all the privileges to the database.

8. Alert Log:

    1. The Alert Log is a chronological record of messages and errors generated by the Oracle Database instance.
    2.  The Alert Log contains information about startup and shutdown, database errors, and warnings, such as ORA- errors,
        configuration changes, and other database events.

9. Trace File

    1. Trace Files are generated by the Oracle Database when errors or other events occur. They contain detailed information about the error,
        including the SQL statement that generated the error.
In summary, the Alert Log and Trace Files are important diagnostic tools that should be monitored regularly to detect and troubleshoot issues
with the Oracle Database instance.
    


          
                  
